
  GNU Gengetopt

This program generates a C function that uses /getopt_long/ function to
parse the command line options, to validate them and fills a /struct/ .

Thus your program can now handle options such as:

myprog --input foo.c -o foo.o --no-tabs -i 100 *.class

And both long options (those that start with --) and short options
(start with - and consist of only one character) can be handled. For
standards about short and long options you may want to take a look at
the GNU Coding Standards <http://www.gnu.org/prep/standards_toc.html> .

gengetopt is *free software*. Please see the file LICENSE and COPYING
for details.
Notice that: Use of gengetopt _does not impose any particular license on
the generated code: the code generated is not under any license_.

For installation, please read the INSTALL file.

For documentation, please read the info documentation.

gengetopt is perfect if you are too lazy (like me) to write all stuff
required to call getopt_long, and when you have a
program and wish it took options.

Generated code works if you use /GNU Autoconf/ or /GNU Automake/ .

Gengetopt has originally been written by *Roberto Arturo Tena Sanchez*
<arturo@directmail.org <mailto:arturo@directmail.org>>, and currently
maintained by *Lorenzo Bettini* http://www.lorenzobettini.it .

Gengetopt is a GNU <http://www.gnu.org> program and its main home page
is at GNU site:
http://www.gnu.org/software/gengetopt/gengetopt.html

    Download

You can download it from GNU's ftp site:
ftp://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/gengetopt/ or from one of its mirrors (see
http://www.gnu.org/prep/ftp.html ).

      Anonymous CVS Access

This project's CVS repository can be checked out through anonymous 
(pserver) CVS with the following instruction: 

cvs -z3 -d:pserver:anonymous@cvs.savannah.gnu.org:/sources/gengetopt co gengetopt 

Further instructions can be found at the address:
http://savannah.gnu.org/projects/gengetopt .



 
*Lorenzo Bettini*
http://www.lorenzobettini.it

gengetopt is free software. See the file LICENSE and COPYING for copying
conditions. Anyway we won't get offended if you send us a postcard :-)

C/C++ files are formatted with /GNU Source-highlight/
(http://www.gnu.org/software/src-highlite/ ) by Lorenzo Bettini.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Return to GNU's home page </home.html>.

Please send FSF & GNU inquiries & questions to /gnu@gnu.org
<mailto:gnu@gnu.org> /. There are also other ways to contact
<http://www.gnu.org/home.html#ContactInfo> the FSF.

Please send comments on these web pages to /webmasters@gnu.org
<mailto:webmasters@gnu.org> /, send other questions to /gnu@gnu.org
<mailto:gnu@gnu.org> /.

Copyright (C) 2001 Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place -
Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111, USA

Verbatim copying and distribution of this entire article is permitted in
any medium, provided this notice is preserved.

Updated:9 Jan 2001 mhw

------------------------------------------------------------------------

