This is grap, an implementation of Kernighan and Bentley's grap
language for typesetting graphs.  I got sick of groff not having a
version of grap, so I built one.

The code is distributed under the FreeBSD-style copyright:

Copyright 1998-2001
Ted Faber
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:


	Redistributions of source code must retain the above
	copyright notice, this list of conditions and the
	following disclaimer.

	Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the
	above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the
	following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other
	materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE FREEBSD PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

That text is reproduced in the COPYRIGHT file, too.  Changes are in
CHANGES.

The code was all written by me, based on K&B's _Grap-A Language for
Typesetting Graphs, Tutorial and User Manual_ by Jon L. Bentley and
Brian W. Kernighan, revised May 1991.  That paper is available from
http://www.kohala.com/start/troff/troff.html as
http://www.kohala.com/start/troff/cstr114.ps .  You should check out
the paper for a complete understanding of grap's power.  grap is a pic
preprocessor, so any typesetting language that can use pic can use
grap.  I believe that TeX can use pic, but I wouldn't be surprised if
grap.defines needs to be fooled with.  If you use TeX and find a set
of grap.defines that work, please let me know.  Some people have used
the given grap.tex.defines.  Modifications always welcome.

If you want to generate a GNU makefile when the system make command is
not GNU make, use the --enable-force-gnu-make option to configure.
configure does it's best to tell if you have GNU make and create an
appropriate make file, but can be confused.

The man page uses the BSD macros.  If your system doesn't, there's an
ASCII version in grap.man, and a postscript version in grap.ps.

Check out the examples in the examples directory.

So far I've compiled the code on Sunos 4.1.3, Solaris 5.5.1, FreeBSD
2.2.7-4.2, and an unknown RedHat Linux 6.1.  It may run under other
systems, and your c++ compiler and yacc/lex versions are probably more
important than the type of Unix you run.  Flex 2.5.4 and the yacc on
FreeBSD 2.2.7 are known to work as well as later versions of bison.
g++ 2.7.2.1, 2.8.1 2.95.1 and 2.95.2 have all worked.  grap uses the
standard template library, so that may also be a factor.  The STL
included with g++ works.  grap has successfully compiled under UWIN
(http://www.research.att.com/sw/tools/uwin/) under Windows NT with g++
2.95.1. (Yeah, it surprised me, too.)

The distribution uses GNU configure.  ./configure should create a
viable set of makefiles.  After running configure, you should be able
to use make directly (specifically, make depend && make).  The
resulting makefile should run under most versions of make, including
GNU make and FreeBSD's pmake.

If you try to compile grap on a new system and have problems, let me
know and I'll try to help.  If you succeed, let me know.

Bug reports or other correspondance to faber@lunabase.org.  This
program is a hobby, so understand that bug reports will be handled as
I have time.  The most recent stable version should always be
available at http://www.lunabase.org/~faber/Vault/software/grap/ .  If
you're having a problem, don't hesitate to mail, because I often have
a slightly pre-release version with in-progress bug fixes too.

